COMPANY INTELLIGENCE REPORT 2016/080
[6.20.2016]


US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION: REPUBLICAN CANDIDATE DONALD TRUMP'S ACTIVITIES IN RUSSIA AND COMPROMISING RELATIONSHIP WITH THE KREMLIN

Summary

-	The Russian regime has been cultivating, supporting and assisting Trump for at least 5 years. The aim, endorsed by Putin, has been to encourage splits and divisions in the Western alliance.

-	So far, Trump has declined various sweetener real estate business deals offered him in Russia in order to further the Kremlin's cultivation of him. However, he and his inner circle have accepted a regular flow of intelligence from the Kremlin, including on his Democratic and other political rivals. A former top Russian intelligence officer claims that the FSB has compromised Trump through his activities in Moscow sufficiently to be able to blackmail him. According to several knowledgeable sources, his conduct in Moscow has included perverted sexual acts which have been arranged/monitored by the FSB.

-	A dossier of compromising material on Hillary Clinton has been collated by the Russian Intelligence Services over many years, and mainly comprises bugged conversations she had on various visits to Russia and intercepted phone calls rather than any embarrassing conduct. The dossier is controlled by Kremlin spokesman, Peskov, directly on Putin's orders. However, it has not as yet been distributed abroad, including to Trump. Russian intentions for its deployment are still unclear.


Detail

1.	Speaking to a trusted compatriot in June 2016, sources A and B, a senior Russian Foreign Ministry figure and a former top level Russian intelligence officer still active inside the Kremlin respectively, said that the Russian authorities had been cultivating and supporting US Republican presidential candidate, Donald Trump for at least 5 years. Source B asserted that the Trump operation was both supported and directed by Russian President Vladimir Putin. Its aim was to sow discord and disunity within the US itself, but more especially within the Transatlantic alliance which was viewed as inimical to Russia's interests.

1.	Source C, a senior Russian financial official, said that the Trump operation should be seen in terms of Putin's desire to return to Nineteenth Century ‘Great Power’ politics anchored upon countries’ interests rather than the ideals-based international order established after World War II.  S/he had overheard Putin talking in this way to close associates on several occasions.

2.	In terms of specifics, Source A confided that the Kremlin had been feeding Trump and his team valuable intelligence on his opponents, including Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, for several years (see more below). This was confirmed by Source D, a close associate of Trump who had organized and managed his recent trips to Moscow, who reported, also in June 2016, that this Russian intelligence had been 'very helpful'. The Kremlin's cultivation operation on Trump also had comprised offering him various lucrative real estate development business deals in Russia, especially in relation to the ongoing 2018 World Cup soccer tournament. However, so far, for reasons unknown, Trump had not taken up any of these.

3.	However, there were other aspects to Trump's engagement with the Russian authorities. One which had borne fruit for them was to exploit Trump's personal obsessions and sexual perversion in order to obtain suitable 'kompromat' (compromising material) on him. According to Source D, where s/he had been present, Trump's perverted conduct in Moscow included hiring the presidential suite of the Ritz Carlton Hotel, where he knew President and Mrs Obama (whom he hated) had stayed on one of their official trips to Russia, and defiling the bed where they had slept by employing a number of prostitutes to perform a golden showers (urination) show in front of him. The hotel was known to be under FSB control with microphones and concealed cameras in all the main rooms to record anything they wanted to.

4.	The Moscow Ritz Carlton episode involving Trump reported above was confirmed by Source E, [REDACTED], who said that s/he and several of the staff were aware of it at the time and subsequently. S/he believed it had happened in 2013. Source E provided an introduction for a company ethnic Russian operative to Source F, a female staffer at the hotel when Trump had stayed there, who also confirmed the story. Speaking separately in June 2016, Source B (the former top level Russian intelligence officer) asserted that Trump's unorthodox behavior in Russia over the years had provided the authorities there with enough embarrassing material on the now Republican presidential candidate to be able to blackmail him if they so wished.

5.	Asked about the Kremlin's reported intelligence feed to Trump over recent years and rumours about a Russian dossier of 'kompromat' on Hillary Clinton (being circulated), Source B confirmed the file's existence. S/he confided in a trusted compatriot that it had been collated by Department K of the FSB for many years, dating back to her husband Bill's presidency, and comprised mainly eavesdropped conversations of various sorts rather than details/evidence of unorthodox or embarrassing behavior. Some of the conversations were from bugged comments Clinton had made on her various trips to Russia and focused on things she had said which contradicted her current position on various issues. Others were most probably from phone intercepts.

6.	Continuing on this theme, Source G, a senior Kremlin official, confided that the Clinton dossier was controlled exclusively by chief Kremlin spokesman, Dmitriy Peskov, who was responsible for compiling/handling it on the explicit instructions of Putin himself. The dossier however had not yet been made available abroad, including to Trump or his campaign team. At present, it was unclear what Putin's intentions were in this regard.


20 June 2016

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
